
# Events

Direktiv has built-in support for CloudEvents, which can be a great way to interact with flows. The following flow has a start condition based on events. It would only start if an event of type `com.github.pull.create` arrives with the source set to `https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/pull`

```yaml title="Example Workflow"
direktiv_api: workflow/v1
start:
  type: event
  event:
    type: com.github.pull.create
    context:
      source: https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/pull
functions:
- id: httprequest
  image: gcr.io/direktiv/functions/http-request:1.0
  type: knative-workflow
states:
- id: notify
  type: action
  action:
    function: httprequest
    input:
      method: "POST"
      url: "https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/todos/1"
      body: 'jq(."com.github.pull.create")'
```

## CloudEvents

[CloudEvents](https://cloudevents.io/) are specification for describing event data in a common way. They're JSON objects with a number of required fields, some optional fields, and a payload.

```json title="Sample Cloudevent"
{
    "specversion" : "1.0",
    "type" : "com.github.pull.create",
    "source" : "https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/pull",
    "subject" : "123",
    "id" : "A234-1234-1234",
    "time" : "2018-04-05T17:31:00Z",
    "comexampleextension1" : "value",
    "comexampleothervalue" : 5,
    "datacontenttype" : "text/xml",
    "data" : "<much wow=\"xml\"/>"
}
```

CloudEvents can be sent via the API to a namespace or generated by flow within Direktiv, to be handled by any number of interested receivers on that namespace.

## Start Types

The most common use for events in Direktiv is to have external services generate CloudEvents and send them to Direktiv to trigger your flows. But to make your flows trigger on an event you need to register the flow's interest in the event by adding the appropriate start type to your workflow definition:

```yaml
direktiv_api: workflow/v1
start:
  type: event
  event:
    type: com.github.pull.create
    filters:
      source: "https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/pull"
```

In this example a new instance will be created whenever a cloudevent is received that has the matching `type` and `source` values.

Two other event-based start types exist in Direktiv: the `eventsXor`, and the `eventsAnd`.

The `eventsXor` registers an interest in multiple events and will trigger a new instance as soon as any one of them is received. The `eventsAnd` also registers an interest in multiple events, but will only trigger once all have been received.

## Event Payloads

Whenever an event is received its payload will be added to the instance data under a field with the same name as the event "type". This allows for a uniform approach to accepting events that supports single events, eventsXor, and eventsAnd. The payload itself consists of the full cloudevent including attributes, extension context attributes and data.

## Instances Waiting for Events

Triggering flows is not the only thing you can do with events. Flows can be constructed to run some logic and then wait for an event before proceeding. Like the event-based start types, there are three event consuming states: `consumeEvent`, `eventsXor`, and `eventsAnd`. 

```yaml title="Waiting Within A Flow"
- id: wait-event
  type: consumeEvent
  event:
    type: com.github.pull.create
    context:
      source: "https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/pull"
      repository: 'jq(.repo)'
  timeout: PT5M
  transform: 'jq(."com.github.pull.create")'
  transition: next-state
```

### Timeouts

It's rarely a good idea to leave a flow waiting indefinitely. Direktiv allows you to define timeouts in ISO8601 format when waiting on an event. If the state is not ready to proceed before the timeout has elapsed an error will be thrown. It's possible to catch the error `direktiv.cancels.timeout.soft`.

The `timeout` field is not required, but Direktiv caps the maximum timeout whether specified or not to prevent flows from living forever. The default timeout is 15 minutes.

### Context

Event-consuming states have a `context` field. The context field can restrict which events are considered matches by requiring an exact match on a CloudEvent context field. This can be used to link certain events to e.g. customer ids or transaction ids.

## GenerateEvent State

Flows can generate events for their namespace. The fields for this state are fairly self-explanatory. Here's an example:

```yaml
- id: gen-event
  type: generateEvent
  event:
    type: "my.custom.event"
    source: "direktiv"
    data: 'jq(.)'
    datacontenttype: "application/json"
```

If the `jq` command that populates the `data` field outputs a plain base64 encoded string and the `datacontenttype` field is set to anything other than `application/json` Direktiv will decode the string before sending the event.
